# Minutes meeting 2016-04-25

## Agenda

* Statusupdate
* Discuss Hendrik's feedback
* Other points

## Statusupdate

* We are on the right track, but we feel as if we are a bit behind due to another
  essay for the IT & Values course.
* It's a bit difficult to find up to date and/or complete documentation for
  Spoofax and its components. However, we do feel as if we have a good global
  overview.
  * spoofax.readthedocs.org
  * Gabriel has a short Java program that uses all the stages of the Spoofax
    API needed to go from source code to execution, given an existing language.
    Contact Gabriel for pointers and more information.
  * A compiler/IDE consists of three pieces: syntax, analysis and
    interpreter/compiler. Which pieces of Spoofax (SDF, NABL, TS and DynSem)
    does our REPL touch and how does it influence these pieces?
    * We should make a model of this and perhaps show this in the research
      report.

## Discuss Hendrik's feedback

* High-level requirements have not been filled in yet.
  * We agreed (see minutes 2016-04-19) to make a list of requirements following
    our research that we are still conducting.
  * However, we could define global requirements to get a gist of what we want
    (*"What should we be able to do at the end?"*)
  * It shouldn't be final (write down global requirements now, refine it later).
    The purpose is that the faster we have an outline, the faster we will see
    what is possible and what is not.

* Verifying the results: possible to do this once we have requirements. How do
  you suggest we verify?
  * We did not have any concrete ideas written down, just something about unit
    tests and that's it. It was more meant as a stimulus to think about it: do
    we use unit tests (specify a certain coverage percentage?), do we use code
    reviews, et cetera? That is for code quality. For product verification, we
    could for example have one or two people from the research group try to
    develop a REPL.  
    So: we need to specify how we achieve code quality and what a viable product
    is.

* What is meant with his comments on the research questions?
  * The topics of the research questions is oke, however the parts about Spoofax
    could be made more explicit. The first question (*"What is Spoofax?"*)
    should have a subquestion *"How does a user create a language in Spoofax"*,
    for example.
  * Split up research questions into what Spoofax offers now and what we need to
    develop to meet the requirements for a REPL.

* Repository isn't private so we need to send a link to it.
  * Tag Hendrik in issues/PRs if we need him.
  * Be proactive in asking questions about Spoofax's documentation.

## Other points

* How were dynamic semantics specified using Stratego before DynSem was around?
  What was the AST transformed to?
  * Several options; Java bytecode or a Stratego interpreter/rewriter.
* To what extent should we know DynSem's notation? Can we find documentation
  somewhere?
  * Again, think about the three pieces of a compiler/interpreter and which
    pieces our REPL touches. Get a high level overview and work (topdown) from
    there.
  * Don't get lost in details of specific components.
  * Send Vlad a PM on Slack to request more information or perhaps make an
    appointments.
* Do not decide our solution/product yet, but do give global guidelines as to
  how we envision it.
* Create diagrams/images for ourselves (and perhaps the report) so assist in
  getting an understanding of how certain components cooperate et cetera. Do not
  lose ourselves in UML details or whatever.
* Literate programming: focus on the interactive parts it defines.

