\chapter{Design}
\label{cha:design}

As detailed in the previous chapters, the Spoofax Language Workbench already
offers a wide variety of services to assist in developing new domain specific
languages. However, not all exposed functionality can be used easily from within
the context of a REPL, where a user wants to be able to type in some expressions
and see their results.

An example is the various transformation goals made available to the user by a
language designer. There is no such thing as a uniform ``evaluation command''
that works across all languages. Instead, each language defines its own
transform goals, of which one is an evaluation goal. Furthermore, the sequence
of processing steps needed to go from source to parsed source to a transformed
result also varies between languages. One of the main goals that the design had to
accomplish, therefore, was to expose a uniform interface for the various
transformation stages to REPL frontends.

\Cref{sec:overview} gives an overview of the product design and its components.
Afterwards, the individual components are explained in more depth.
\Cref{sec:commands} addresses the presentation of a uniform interface to
frontends by encapsulating operations in commands. \Cref{sec:function-comp}
details how commands have been decomposed into smaller functions, which allows
frontends to build their own transformation pipeline. \Cref{sec:visitor}
explains how transformation results are returned to the REPL frontends.
\Cref{sec:eval-strat} discusses the DynSem evaluation strategy. An explanation
is given as to how other evaluation strategies can be added to the existing
design to support other interpreter backends, such as Stratego.

\input{design/overview}

\input{design/commands}

\input{design/function-comp}

\input{design/visitor}

\input{design/eval-strat}

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "main"
%%% End:
