\chapter{Introduction}
\label{cha:introduction}

Nowadays, many domain specific programming languages (DSLs) are available,
besides general purpose programming languages such as Java and C. Domain
specific programming languages can provide several advantages due to them
operating in a specific domain. They can provide more expressive power, make
domain-specific optimizations and reduce the surface of bugs due to being
inherently more limited than general purpose programming languages. These
advantages significantly lower the burden on the programmer and the language
designer. Well known examples of such DSLs include HTML for creating websites
and SQL for dealing with relational data.

At the Delft University of Technology, the Software Language Design and
Engineering group researches and develops domain specific languages. To
facilitate prototyping and creation of DSLs, the Spoofax Language Workbench was
developed and first published in 2010~\cite{Kats10a}. Since then Spoofax has had
several releases and will soon be arriving at version number 2.0. The
description below is taken from \href{http://spoofax.org}{the Spoofax website}:
\textit{``The Spoofax Language Workbench supports the definition of all aspects
of textual languages using high-level, declarative meta-languages. From a
language definition using these meta-languages, Spoofax generates full-featured
Eclipse and IntelliJ editor plugins, as well as a command-line interface.''}

A feature that Spoofax is lacking is a Read-Eval-Print Loop (REPL) service. A
REPL is an interactive programming environment that takes single expressions,
evaluates them and prints the result(s). REPLs facilitate exploratory
programming and debugging and are therefore a nice addition to Spoofax.

This document details how such a REPL has been implemented over the course of
the TU Delft Computer Science Bachelor Project.

TODO: list structure of document

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "main"
%%% End:
